["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[grunts]
[speaking in Russian]
Igor?
Hmm?
[groans]
[Igor speaking in Old Norse]
[Ivar chuckles]
[in English] We can talk!
[in English] Yes. We can talk.
Now we can discuss
serious things.
Important things.
Like what?
Like... What do
the gods look like?
There is only one God
and he looks like Oleg.
Mmm-hmm.
Do you know
who you are? Hmm?
I don't understand.
Everything here.
Everything belongs to you.
In this room?
[laughs] No, Igor.
In this whole town, Kiev.
And Novgorod too.
And everything
in the whole of Rus.
The land. The sky.
The villages. The town.
The people.
It's all yours.
You make me laugh.
I know it really
belongs to Oleg.
I'm happy that we can talk
because now I can
explain things to you.
I can explain how
you have been betrayed.
Nothing belongs to Oleg.
Oleg is not a god.
Oleg is nothing, but you,
you are everything.
And everything here
belongs to you.
Remember that.
[indistinct chatter]
[woman] Over here now!
[Viking 1] I'd like to change
his bandage.
[Viking 2] Help me here.
[Viking 3] Cut it off!
Cut it off! Cut it!
[Bjorn] We're surrounded.
Let's acquit ourselves well.
I don't intend
to miss out on Valhalla.
[warrior] Bjorn!
We found him in the camp.
He says he needs
to speak to you.
What is the matter?
Haven't you betrayed us enough?
I have a message
from King Olaf.
He won't attack
if you agree to meet him.
He also said you can
forget about all that,
if you kill me.
-[Bjorn grunts]
-[gasps]
[cracks neck]
Tell King Olaf I agree,
but I too have a condition:
I want to see
with my own eyes
that King Harald
is still alive.
[coughing]
Valhalla can wait.
[Lagertha]
As you all must know,
there is a group of bandits
who are attacking
the villages around here.
They might attack us,
so we should be prepared.
Some of you
were shield-maidens.
You don't forget
how to fight.
Probably we fought together
before the walls of Paris,
-if you can still remember?
-Of course, Lagertha.
You must still have
your shields
and your weapons
stored somewhere.
Now we all have to fight again.
The women more than the men.
You boys,
you could be look-outs.
You can tell us when
the bandits are around.
And you girls, you look
after the animals. Yes?
[girls] Yes, Lagertha.
You men. You are not so old.
You can still be useful,
can't you?
-[women laughing]
-Yes, we can.
I need you to build better
protection for our stores.
Think of our stores
as our gold.
We can't live without it,
so we must defend it
with our lives.
[all] Yes. We will.
Also, I want everyone
to go into the woods,
and cut suitable staves
for making bows and arrows.
But do
all these things quickly.
There isn't much time.
Lagertha, it doesn't matter
what we do.
We can't beat the bandits.
You know that.
We will all die.
Yes, we will all die.
But not necessarily
when the bandits attack us.
[Viking] Yeah, tie it there.
Bring the boy! All the way!
[door bangs open]
[King Olaf] Ah, Bjorn Ironside.
Please, come and sit down.
Make yourself comfortable.
We three are strangely
brought together again.
Fate works in mysterious ways.
The Norns weave it
and so we believe it.
Skol!
Hmm.
Last night I had a dream.
And in that dream,
I was sitting in a room
with King Harald Finehair
and King Bjorn Ironside.
[laughs]
You know, perhaps everything
is a dream.
And we are spirits and will
someday just melt into the air.
Into thin air.
[Harald] If you care
so little about the real world,
why do you not simply
renounce this kingdom
and go home with your warriors?
[breathing heavily]
Believe me, there is nothing
you can do
that you can make yourself
a popular ruler here.
Nothing!
[King Olaf] Hmm.
If nothing is real,
we must still act as if it was.
But the real mystery
is that now,
both of you are my prisoners.
[scoffs]
It is true, Bjorn Ironside,
you still have an army,
but your army, I believe,
is not strong enough now
to defeat me.
[Bjorn] If our armies
do fight again,
whatever the outcome,
you will be seriously weakened.
In which case,
you will find it hard
to keep hold
of this new kingdom,
as well as your old.
Either way, you won't win.
I will reflect more
on that matter, and, um,
how to resolve our differences.
I am growing tired
of this old way of thinking.
In the meantime,
King Harald, sadly,
must return to your prison,
and you to your camp
where you will
remain surrounded,
but I will arrange
to have food brought to you.
[hammering]
[indistinct chatter]
Will the bandits attack soon?
They might not attack at all.
But, in any case,
you mustn't be afraid.
You mustn't be afraid
for two reasons.
Firstly, because we will all
look after you.
And secondly,
because you are Viking,
the son and daughter
of great warriors.
I'm not afraid! If they attack,
I want to make my mother
and father proud of me!
[chuckles]
I am proud of you.
And you.
[man calling out]
[man] And the next one.
[Viking 1] On the second ship!
[Viking 2] Yes!
Ready for the wedges now!
-[Viking 3] Over here!
-[Viking 2] On the cart!
[Viking 3] I will bring them!
[Viking 2] You are ready?
[gasps]
[addict groaning]
[Amma] Hvitserk.
Hvitserk! Get up!
Get up! Please.
Out!
Out! Move!
Hello, Hvitserk.
[grunting]
I wanted to see you.
I have some news for you.
News? What news?
Good news. I want to give you
some responsibility.
I don't think our family
has ever truly recognized
your talents.
Really?
Yes, you know very well.
So...
I want you to lead a trade
delegation to the East.
You will travel along
the ancient Silk Road,
making trade deals
and contacts all the way.
I hope you agree
to this, Hvitserk.
I'm trying to help you.
I know. I know.
I'll get better.
[whispers] I'll get better.
I won't disappoint you.
Believe me.
[weeping]
[Ubbe grunting]
[Hvitserk] Thank you.
Thank you, brother. [sobbing]
[indistinct chatter]
Now we have time, Ketill.
Time?
Time for you to tell me
what really happened
in Iceland between
Floki and the settlers.
I want the whole story.
The truth.
You know most of it already.
We suffered many early
hardships and difficulties.
There was no food.
Our first crop failed.
There was an evil man
called Eyvind.
He blamed Floki
for every difficulty,
for everything that went wrong.
The rest of us built
a temple to Thor.
Eyvind and his family
burnt it down.
Then his sons...
Killed my son Thorgrim...
[inhales deeply]
And my pregnant daughter
Thorunn.
And you retaliated
for their deaths?
No.
No, Floki told us not to.
He said the settlement
could not survive through
a cycle of killings.
It's not true.
In the end I killed Eyvind
and all of his family.
After all, I am a Viking.
It was a matter of honor.
Floki was a dreamer.
He would have felt crushed
by the destruction
of his dream,
for which you and Eyvind
were responsible!
But still, I can't just accept
that Floki walked away.
Surely someone killed him
and hid the body!
Perhaps
you killed him, Ketill?
No, Bjorn.
Perhaps there was
a confrontation
and you struck him.
No, Bjorn! I had nothing to do
with Floki's disappearance,
I swear to you on my arm-ring.
You better pray
to the gods that
one day Floki returns
to verify your story.
Because up until that day,
you, a man capable
of slaughtering
an entire family,
will to me forever stand
accused of his murder!
Each must die someday.
Even you, Bjorn Ironside.
Even you.
[Hvitserk vomiting]
[groaning]
[panting]
Let me out!
Please, please!
Please.
[gasping]
[wheezing]
[indistinct chatter]
Where is Hvitserk?
Then we'd better go find him.
-Go and find him!
-[Viking] Yes, Ubbe.
[man 1] You lazy dogs.
[man 2] What is this?
[sighs]
Why Hvitserk? Why?
I...
I tried to give you a chance.
I don't think he meant
to disappoint you.
He can't help it.
You will have to leave
without him.
Appoint a leader
among yourselves.
Remember that your mission
is vital to us.
May the gods speed you
along the Silk Road.
[Hvitserk] No, no.
Ubbe, don't be too hard on him.
I tried, but I can't. I can't.
Can't you see that?
I tried, and I can't.
-I love you, brother.
-And you.
I always have
and I always will.
But you have just betrayed me
for the second time
in your life.
Look at you. Look at you.
Get up!
Stand up!
I'm sorry. Ubbe.
-I'm sorry.
-No. It's too late.
[mumbles indistinctly]
I don't want
to see you anymore.
And I have nothing left
to say to you.
[breathing erratically]
[man 1 in distorted voice]
Hvitserk.
[man 2 laughing]
[gasps]
[man in distorted voice]
Hvitserk! Hvitserk!
[laughter continues]
[man] Hvitserk!
[Ivar] I'm here, brother!
My dear, sweet Hvitserk!
Is it true that
you jumped ship
not because you loved me,
but because you needed to be close enough to kill me?
[screaming]
[Ivar] You think
it is your fate.
I know your fate, brother.
Your fate is to be
killed by me.
Please, leave me alone! Please!
[Ivar] No, no, no, no, no.
I will never leave you alone.
[gasps]
You were dreaming.
What is it?
Is it true?
Do I really own all the land
and all the sky?
Yes. It all belongs to you.
And one day, Igor,
you will believe me.
Prince Oleg is asking for you.
You wanted to see me.
Yes.
I wanted to tell you
that I have ordered
the immediate mobilization
of a great army,
and the gathering
and construction
of a great fleet,
for the invasion
of Scandinavia.
The time has finally come.
I am very happy to hear that.
You can be very useful to me.
You are a son
of Ragnar Lothbrok.
No one can question
your legitimacy to rule
when I place you
upon the throne.
Oh, so then I will be
your puppet ruler, huh?
Don't mess with me,
Ivar the Boneless.
I'm offering you far more
than you're worth.
You can rule kingdoms.
Who gives a damn
if it's really me
who controls everything?
You will be the king!
You will be famous!
Isn't that what
you Vikings like?
[chuckles softly]
You forget something.
What?
I'm a god.
A descendant of Odin.
You are not a god!
You're not a god,
and my faithless wife
was no saint!
She was a whore!
I told you,
you can be useful.
That should be enough for you!
But don't ever betray me
or I'll stuff
your boneless body
in the casket with my wife!
Oh, my beloved.
[sobs] My beloved forgive me.
Don't take everything
so seriously, Ivar.
[sighs] Widows are
very passionate,
very emotional.
We get carried away sometimes,
you understand?
But I believe
with all my heart...
You are descendant
from Odin.
And of course,
this makes me jealous...
And it makes me
love you.
I have been sitting here
for many hours.
Or perhaps for many days.
I have been meditating
upon the sagas,
the ancient stories,
the histories of our people.
Thinking especially
about the endless
small-scale wars
between all the many
and various kingdoms
of our beloved Norway.
And it seems to me,
these endless,
fruitless wars
are simply ludicrous,
and do nothing to promote
the general interest
of our people.
[Harald] Forgive me,
but you are as guilty
as any other ruler of
provoking and starting
small-scale wars,
for your own advantage.
Look what you have done here.
You speak the truth.
But sometimes the real truth
is hidden from all of us,
beyond the accidents
of time and place,
and has to be revealed.
And the gods,
in their infinite wisdom,
have revealed it to me.
[chuckling]
Well, would it possible
for you to explain
what the gods
have revealed to you?
It is time to give up
the old ways of acting,
the old ways of thinking.
It is time for a rebirth!
For a new beginning.
It is time to elect and anoint
a king for all Norway!
A king who can
unite the people,
to whom the people can
look up to and respect.
And what better man than you,
Bjorn Ironside,
the eldest son of
the great Ragnar Lothbrok,
who now sits
on the right hand of Odin,
in the Halls of the Aesir?
What better king to command
our poor, war-torn,
fractured country?
Of course, all the kings,
queens, Jarls
and petty earls would have
to be summoned
to approve the plan.
But once they do,
I swear to you,
I will relinquish
all my kingdoms, all my power,
to the new savior.
So, go away
and consider my plan.
You are both free to do so.
But don't take long
to consider your verdict.
Oh-so much depends on it.
[indistinct chatter]
[imitates bird call]
[boy imitates bird call]
[breathing heavily]
[yells]
[blowing horn]
[woman] They're coming!
Get some weapons!
[man] Quickly! Quickly,
everyone arm yourselves!
You know what to do!
[horse whinnies]
Here.
[bandit] Halt.
Where are they?
Those boys signaled to them.
Maybe they all ran away.
Their store house! Open it!
[grunting]
[gasps]
[White Hair] Shield wall!
The store house! Attack!
[bandit] Gather in! Gather in!
On me! Gather in!
[grunting]
[screams]
-[bandit 1] Into position!
-[bandit 2] Forward!
Find cover!
-[bandit 1] Shields high!
-[bandit 2] Cover! Take cover!
Come on!
[yelling]
[grunting]
[bandit 1] Everybody!
Men! Come along!
[bandit 2] Gather in!
Gather in!
[yells]
Shield-maidens, fight!
[grunts]
There is nothing to fear
from either bandits
or death!
[breathing heavily]
[grunting continues]
Get out now!
Stop the attack! Get out!
[cheering]
[cheering continues]
Lagertha! Look at me!
Look at me!
[urging horse on]
Hali! No! Get back!
Get back!
[screams]
[grunting]
[shouting] No! Hali!
Hali!
[White Hair urging on horse]
[breathing heavily]
Hello, Lagertha.
Poor Hali.
I don't know if I did enough.
I'm sorry.
You have nothing
to be sorry for.
You have been so brave.
Was I?
I wasn't sure.
Am I dying, Lagertha?
You've been more than brave.
You are dying, Hali,
but the gods are here.
Odin is here.
He saw how brave you were.
I hope so.
I am telling you the truth.
You believe me, don't you?
Odin will take you to Valhalla.
You will be with
all the great warriors
and heroes of our time.
You will be a special person.
You will be special
because your father
is Bjorn Ironside.
And because you have
been so brave.
You will sit in the great Halls
of the Aesir.
Hali?
[weeping]
[breathing heavily]
-[screaming]
-[horse whinnies]
[heavy breathing continues]
[indistinct chatter]
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
Dir!
Dir.
I've brought you something.
[grunting]
Ah, we can't have you die now.
No. Not when, someday,
you might get free again.
[grunting]
Free?
I want to be free.
Do you mean it, Ivar, huh?
You know, you used
to call me "the cripple."
God forgive me!
It's my last chance.
I'm sick. Really sick.
I won't last the winter.
I know.
So, what did you mean, huh?
That one day
I might be free, huh?
If you... If you help me,
I can give you
everything you want.
Everything?
Everything and anything!
Riches beyond belief!
And slaves! Women!
Hundreds, thousands of slaves.
Hundreds of women!
Castles everywhere.
I don't care too much
about the castles.
I would just like the chance
to overthrow Prince Oleg.
What is it?
[Gunnhild] I had a dream.
And in my dream,
I saw a village all ablaze.
I saw women dying.
A young boy pierced
by an arrow.
High up in a tree.
[Torvi] What do you
think it meant?
I don't know.
You must have some idea.
I think it might have been...
It might have been
Lagertha's village.
Lagertha's?
You mean, it was attacked?
You have never been to
Lagertha's village, Gunnhild.
No.
But I had a feeling.
My children are there!
And why did I not see
or feel anything?
I don't know, Torvi.
I feel I should go there
and find out.
You are with child.
Bjorn's child.
It is a long way.
I don't care.
-Then I must go with you.
-No.
No, I need you here.
I will send someone
to discover the truth.
I'm sure it is not
Lagertha's village.
I would have heard.
I'm going.
Believe me,
I would like to go too.
But I cannot leave Kattegat
for everyone's dreams.
I have to be responsible.
I'm trapped here
by responsibility.
And, as my wife,
so are you.
That is how it is.
We mourn our dead,
and honor them,
and pray they will dwell
among the gods
until Ragnarok.
But we the living
must try and ensure that
their deaths were not in vain.
The bandits who attacked us
and killed them
did not get what they wanted.
They did not manage to steal
our grain or our livestock,
which means that
they will come back.
And I think they will
come back soon.
We have a choice.
We can abandon
our village and the dead.
We can abandon our grain
and our livestock
and we can go and hide
in the fields,
and hope the bandits
don't find us.
Or we can stay.
We can send a few messengers
out to villages for help.
And we can prepare
again to fight
and defend what is ours.
I don't want
to leave my brother.
[Runa] I lost my son.
You can all go if you want,
but I will stay
and defend the dead.
[Gudmund] We will all stay.
Does a warrior hide
in the rushes
because he is afraid of dying?
None of us is afraid.
Hali wasn't afraid.
We should all stay and fight.
[Lagertha] Hali wasn't afraid.
He died for all of us.
So all of us will stay here.
Even if we have to die
for them.
[indistinct chatter]
[Torvi] Gunnhild!
Gunnhild! Wait!
Gunnhild!
I still think
I should come with you.
I'm sure Ubbe is right.
It is not Lagertha's village.
-I just need to--
-Give these to Hali and Asa.
Tell them I love them.
Of course I will.
Now we must go.
[King Olaf] Well?
We agree to your plan.
[panting] Send word out
to all the kings and Jarls
to gather here.
To elect Bjorn Ironside
King of all Norway!
I already have.
[cackling]
[music playing]